Fade into American flag (the KS VOTES flag) and the the first few lines of the Constitution (in original script more or less) fades on top

We the people...

Fade to a voting center

1) 

Fade to gray

2)

Fade to a bunch of news, fake news, and entertainment headlines (such as 4 million votes not counted, hanging chad, ...)

3)

Fade to gray

4)

Fade to the Capital building

5)

Title expand (VOTES - Verifiable Open Technology Election System)

6) (title is read)

Collage of Americans checking there ballots and the tally

7), 8)

Quick reveal (no expand) of title again

9), 10)

Fades:

Start with a blank ballot

Fade to a scanner connected to an iPhone 

Fade to the ballot with a digest

Fade to a merkle chain thing

Fade to a list of keys

11)

Fade to the 'not' circles

12)

Then the voter looks at the smartphone screen, which is protected by a visual shield.  Cut to the phone screen where the viewer reads "your key is 42".  Cut back to the scanner which has just printed a page with 100 keys numbered from 0 to 99.  (This is still all an animation)  The voter takes the sheet and walks out.

13)

A second fade to people checking their ballots

13b)

Maybe a fade to a map of the 50 states?

14)

And then a fade down to Philadelphia and where the declaration was signed?
Animation of the United States, then a zoom into Philadelphia all the way down to some school districts within the city itself.  And some address flash out with different blank ballots.

15)

A fade in and out of a collage of the different types of voting in words (maybe like bumper stickers fading in and out)

16)

Fade back to an average main street USA, in a NE fall evening, with lights on in the houses.  Fade into the kitchen table of such a house.  Again looking at a couple on a laptop (looking at the person's front/face and the back of the laptop).  A look of concern cross their face.  Switch to screen showing the names of people who voted on his street.  The title is voter-id per address.  They are looking at their address.  The voter-id shows several odd and mispelled names interspersed with the Spanish-American, Anglo, and Muslim names on the street.  The misspellings are of classic Anglo-Saxon names.  One of the couple say - we don't have neighbors with names like that.

17)

Fade back to the VOTES KS American flag and the first few lines of We the people...
