1) What is VOTES?

VOTES, an acronym for Verifiable Open Technology Election System, is a distributed, full-ledger, open-source voting system that creates 100% transparent, secure, and end-user verifiable elections.  VOTES creates both a physical paper ballot at the voting center as well as an electronic copy of the ballot.  The electronic copy is stored in a full-ledger, open source, bitcoin-like, digitally signed repository which is publicly available after all the polls close.  This public repostory contains all the blank and cast ballots as well as the tally algorithms for each contest on every ballot.  Once available, every voter can download a copy of the ledger and perform the tally of the votes for any contest.  And if a voter has obtained a copy of their ballot's public key, they can use that public key to inspect their specific ballot.

2) More technical information on VOTES

VOTES is both an election framework and an implementation of the necessary digital solutions needed to run an open, transparent, and secure digital based election.  The two major aspects are 1) two publicly available repositories, available once all the polls close, one containing a full ledger accounting of the election and one containing the voter's name and address; and 2) a SaaS solution for actually running an election including pre-election day, election day, and post election day workflows.

VOTES is open source with the initial implementation employing the open source Git software development application as an initial technology prototype.  Those with a greater interest in the technology can visit the github project at https://github.com/relengcom/votes.

3) What is the kickstarter campaign funding?

The primary goal of the kickstarter campaign is to raise the funds to win one or more state or city RFPs (Request For Proposals).  By winning one or more RFP's to implement a transparent, open-source, verifiable election system, a VOTES solution becomes a reality.

If no RFP is signed, a secondary goal is that the kickstarter funding will allow enough technology to be created and demonstrated such that an initial round of private investing can occur.  This would not be the first choice but it would keep the VOTES project going.

Regardless of any financial outcome, a fundemental goal is to make elections more transparent, secure, and trustworthy.  Even if our funding goal is not reached, the kickstarter campaign can be successful if VOTES is thoroughly reviewed by end voters, election scientists, and technology experts.  Being open source, such a review can be critically important for any next generation digital election solution and serve as an important open source reference.

4) How does an end voter interact with VOTES?

For casting votes at a physical voting center, there are only a few subtle changes that the end voter will experience.  When they submit their paper ballot to the VOTES ballot scanner, their ballot has the possibility of being rejected in their presence if any portion of it cannot be successfully scanned.  If so, they have the opportunity to privately address the issue.

When successfully scanned, the voter has the option of privately obtaining a copy of their ballot's public key.  Not - unlike a bitcoin block-chain there is no private key associated with a scanned ballot.  Once all the polls close, the public key can be used to inspect their specific electronic copy of their ballot.  If the election officials support it, the public key can be used to also inspect the physical ballot.

Also, once all the polls close any voter can download a copy of the full ledger public repository and count the votes themselves.  All tallies of all contests are publicly executable.  There is no third party, human or machine, that secretly counts the votes.  This is particularly important as communities and states consider and adopt Rank Choice Voting.  Maximizing transparency and trust in a RCV tally is important due to its increased tally complexity.  And there is no better way to maximize that trust then by allowing all voters to inspect all the code and all the data as well as execute all the tallies on their own device.

5) How does an election official interact with VOTES?

Pre-election day, VOTES supplies the framework in which all the geographical/geopolitical overlays (the GGO's, e.g. the states, counties, municipalities, cities, towns, districts, precincts, school districts, etc.), can easily compose the ballots for their specific constituents based on address or other criteria in an iterative, collaborative, and independent manner.  VOTES natively stores the GIS information necessary to map a voter's address to all GGO's and can automatically create the correct ballot for any address whenever needed.

During election day, VOTES can generate address-specific ballots, scan cast ballots, and help end voters correct un-scannable ballots.  The VOTES SaaS solution runs the digital portion of the election while the ballots are added to the public repository.

6) End to End Validation (E2EV)

VOTES directly supports E2EV by providing a consistent but customizable framework for every participating voting center.  The physical ballots can be independently sampled and compared to the electronic copies both in count, content, and by statistical sampling.

In addition, voters in pocession of their ballot's public key can inspect both their electronic ballot via VOTES and the phyiscal ballot via their election officials if their election officials support that optional workflow (physical ballot inspection is an optional workflow).

7) Gerrymandering

VOTES does not solve or directly address gerrymandering.  However, it does include the Monte Carlo simulations necessary to display the deviation, if any, of the current districting per GGO (geographical/geopolitical overlay districting - e.g. a state, county, school, etc., districting), from the ideal vote-to-seat representation for that GGO.  Since VOTES does this both at the GGO level and at the address and ballot level, every voter can directly see the effects of districting on their ballot or for their address.   By revealing directly to the voter the gerrymandering effect, if any, the goal is to ultimately reduce gerrymandering to attain the goal of accurate proportional representaton of votes to districted seats.

8) What does VOTES offer?  What is unique about VOTES?

TRANSPARENCY: with VOTES each anonymous electronic copy of each specific ballot is directly inspectable via its public key.  All voters have the capability to privately obtain their public key for their ballot from election officials when their ballot is scanned.  The public key allows inspection of their personal ballot, either physical or electronic.  Since all public keys are available to everyone, public keys have no inherent value.  Specifically, VOTES does not create an opportunity or a market in which to sell ballots.

In addition all citizens can execute the tally themselves when they clone the public repository.  In this manner the tally is never executed in private by a third party, human or machine.  By bringing the ballots and the tally to the people, the trust in the election system is increased substantially compared to any closed system.

DATA SECURITY:  VOTES is a signed full ledger based solution similar but different than bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.  Each change to the application and/or the data is carried forward such that history cannot be changed.  This history includes all the pre-election day workflows, such as the various GGO's (geographical/geopolitical overlays) iteratively creating their ballots, all the election day workflows (scanning ballots), and post election day workflows (verification of the election).

PROVIDES THE NECESSARY BUT MINIMAL PUBLIC DATA:  VOTES is not a voter id system or solution.  However, the VOTES public repository does include the names and addresses of the voters who cast ballots but does not contain any data that can be used to correlate the voter and their ballot.  By providing the names and addresses only and without correlation data, VOTES allows additional inspection and thus additional trust in elections without revealing additional private information.

OPERATIONAL SECURITY: When an election is being held, which includes pre-election workflows by election officials, election day workflows including entering ballots cast at polling centers, and post all the polls closed workflows, all network communication is based on best-in-class encrypted mutual-ssl communication with 2FA (2 factor authentication) interaction points and anti-bot interegation points.  The design of the VOTES repositories is distributed and naturally supports network interruptions and outages.  Each voting center operates in an independent manner, checkpointing electronic ballot and voter id activity back to the VOTES SaaS servers as opposed to constant live synchronization.

